Week 1

For just over a month, I've been collecting police reports from the east side Baltimore County police precincts.

My process of collection is to go to the Parkville, North Point, White Marsh and Essex precincts every Monday morning, between 10 a.m. and noon. Each precinct's administrative officer will print out the reports for me that were filed since Monday of the previous week.

At the Parkville, White Marsh and Essex precincts, I'm able to take scans of the reports on my phone. The North Point precinct has me transcribe the information I want from the reports into my notebook.

At this point, I have 126 records from four precincts.
 
With this data, I've created a spreadsheet, that I update weekly, with the initial following categories: Precinct, Date, Location, Incident Charge, Suspect Information, Description.

As you suggested, I added a date/time occurred column and date/time reported column.  I can go back to the reports I have from the precincts that let me take the photos and update the spreadsheet. I scheduled an appointment next week to go to North Point to review all the printed out records to fill in the date/time reported info that I hadn't been recording before.

I'm still thinking about what questions I can ask from the data. Just eyeballing the spreadsheet, I can see some types of crime that I thought were odd that actually happen fairly frequently such as burglars stealing copper wires from buildings. 

Week 2


This week, I've primarily continued collecting reports from the east side police precincts.

I was up against a tight deadline for a story I had to file at the Sun on Monday, so I had to wait until Wednesday to get the reports. This also screwed me up because I wasn't able to make the time this week to go back and fill in the holes in my data from the Dundalk precinct, which is the one where I have to transcribe the reports instead of taking photos.

I also wasn't able to go to the Parkville precinct so far this week because the administrative officer I usually deal with there hasn't been available since my usual Monday appointment. As a result, I'm a week behind in data for this precinct, but I should be able to catch up by next week.

I've also been thinking about how I should be analyzing the data. Although most of the incidents across all precincts are burglaries, there are some precincts that have more violent crimes such as robberies and assaults than others.

I also thought about looking for which blocks in each precinct have the highest number of a specific crime. Eyeballing the data, I've been able to see certain street names pop up more so than others.

Week 3


I'm continuing to collect data from the police precincts for my database. I've caught up on the reports that I've missed from the previous week, when I had to change the time that I typically go to collect the reports.

As far as how I'm going to tackle the problem with the intersections, I think I'm just going to go with the one listed first. It seems like too much of an undertaking to try and determine which of the two roads is the one most traveled for four different jurisdictions. And, I'm not even sure if and where that data is available. I know that the state highway administration and the county do test how much some roads are traveled when determining if renovations are needed, but I don't think they do it for all roads.

Also, I've started to notice that some of the bigger incidents such as homicides don't seem to be listed in the incident summaries that I'm collecting. I need to figure out what sort of crimes get summaries, and what's excluded. 

When I was doing the homework last night, I tried to do this with the motor vehicle thefts data, but struggled to determine where the theft should count if two streets (intersections) are listed. I know I'll have a similar problem with my data set.

Week 4

I found out this week from a police PIO that every incident that is associated with a charge will receive an incident summary, but not necessarily every call made to the precinct. For example, if someone calls to complain about a neighbor but the neighbor is not technically doing anything illegal, there won't be a report on that. 

As far as what I was noticing about some bigger crimes that we've reported based on media releases that I didn't see at the precincts, I was told the headquarters tell the precinct leaders to hold off on releasing the reports on them until they have vetted out the sensitive information from those. 
To make up not having the reports, police said, they have the media releases. But this is generally limited to homicide cases, but I think there's at least one kidnapping incident that I don't have a report of as well. 

To make up for this, I'll have to go through the county site to find all their media releases and fill out my spreadsheet with that. And possibly get the incident summaries too, if there's information not available on the releases that I need.

When analyzing my data, I figured that I can use the Baltimore County Index Crimes PDF, which has Part 1 crime totals for each precinct from January to September and comparisions to the previous 5-year average. Reports from the previous years aren't available online, but I'll plan to get
at least the past two years from the police department. I think I'll focus my analysis on how the precincts are doing so far this year, compared to where that lines up average wise at the same points in the previous years. 

Obviously a full year's worth of data would be better. Also, it might not be a great comparison because police suspect that the unusually cold winter has helped keep crime down, and my data won't have figures from summer, when crime rates are typically the highest as a result of the good weather.

I also realized that I made some huge errors on my spreadsheet where a good amount of times I mixed up the dates reported and dates occurred categories. Luckily, I still have all the original records, but I need to go through it all again and fix that, hopefully by the end of this weekend. 

I'll upload that and the PDF file to the log once my data is clean and I figure out how to add files to GitHub.
